docs: refresh session lifespan, extend samples (#1185)
ory/docs: docs/kratos/session-management/01_overview.mdx

---
id: overview

> title: Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Overview of sessions, Ory Session Cookies, and Ory Session Tokens
```

title: Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
---

> # Overview

Author: fixed

## Ory Session

> An example of an Ory session can be seen in the [Get session API](../../reference/api#tag/identity/operation/disableSession)

Reviewer 2: Why `disableSession` instead of `listSessions`?
https://docs-btk6arvlq-ory.vercel.app/docs/reference/api#tag/identity/operation/listSessions

Author: fixed to `getSession`

> response.

Author: added

| `expires_at`       | Defines the time when the Session expires. This value depends on the session lifespan configuration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `authenticated_at` | Indicates the time of the most recent successful authentication. This value is updated when: <ul><li>The end-user authenticates with a second factor such as TOTP</li><li>The end-user refreshes their session using the [`/self-service/login/browser`](../../reference/api.mdx#operation/initializeSelfServiceLoginFlowForBrowsers) endpoint or [`/self-service/login/api`](../../reference/api.mdx#operation/initializeSelfServiceLoginFlowWithoutBrowser) endpoint and setting `refresh` to `true`</li></ul> |

### Using Ory Session Cookie

> An Ory Session Cookie is issued when the user signs in through a web browser. To get the session payload, send a request to the

Reviewer 2: Technically true, but we show a curl command below which is native using the cookie. I think maybe we should clarify or reword it to fit the narrative that cookies are meant for browser based flows (Server-side and single page).

This is also specific to which api is called e.g. `/login/browser` vs `/login/api`.

Author: The curl command example is only for developer simplicity to view on command line. I can add a note in about the appropriate usage

`/sessions/whoami` endpoint:

````mdx-code-block
<Tabs groupId="sdk-console">

> <TabItem value="native" label="React">

Reviewer 2: this if fine since `Typescript` can be a file run by `node` which is server-side instead of `react` also using typescript but it is run in the browser.

```mdx-code-block
import reactWhoAmI from "!!raw-loader!@site/code-examples/sdk/typescript/src/selfservice/session/whoami-react.tsx"

<CodeBlock language="ts" title="Checking current session">{reactWhoAmI}</CodeBlock>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="curl" label="cURL">

```mdx-code-block
<CodeBlock language="shell">{`curl '${getSdkUrl().url}/sessions/whoami' \\
  -H 'Accept: application/json' \\
  -H 'Cookie: ory_kratos_session=MTYzNDIyNzEzN3xEdi1CQkFFQ180SUFBUkFCRUFBQVJfLUNBQUVHYzNSeWFXNW5EQThBRFhObGMzTnBiMjVmZEc5clpXNEdjM1J5YVc1bkRDSUFJRTFDYWtvME5VNVlaVWxvYVZWeWJrUnZhSEF4YmxSV2VVRlhNMWwxVlVGenxXpsk2cL21Dclk3nCoXV41N6bFxvVJSt7CeICy_815Aw=='`}</CodeBlock>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
````

### Using Ory Session Token

> An Ory Session Token is issued when the user authenticates through a client other than a web browser. To get the session payload,

Reviewer 2: Also technically true, but a browser application can also call `login/api`. I think we should just be more verbose and say something along the lines of Native applications such as desktop and mobile applications, terminal based applications that do not run inside a browser should use tokens instead of cookies.

> The session is considered privileged when its `authenticated_at` isn't older than the `privileged_session_max_age` value defined

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The session is considered privileged when its `authenticated_at` is younger than the `privileged_session_max_age` value defined
```
I don't know, rephrase this maybe? reading "isn't older than" was tough to understand. Had to read it a few times to get the grasp of it. 

Does it mean that the session privileged allows editing or disallows editing / changing username / email.. etc.?

Author: Yeah, privileged sessions allow/enable editing fields like email

in the configuration.

### Configuration

This is how you update the `privileged_session_max_age` to `15m`:

````mdx-code-block
<Tabs>
<TabItem value="console" label="Ory Console" default>

> To change the privileged session duration, go to [**Ory Console**](https://console.ory.sh/) → **Session Settings**, enter the desired value (Use hour (h), minute (m), second (s) to define interval, for example: 15m30s, 1m) in the Privileged Sessions section and click the **Save** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the privileged session duration, go to [**Ory Console**](https://console.ory.sh/) → **Session Settings**, enter the desired value (Use hour (h), minute (m), second (s) to define interval, for example: 1h15m30s) in the Privileged Sessions section and click the **Save** button.
```

Reviewer 2: maybe we should show it can be used together `1h15m30s` since you show an example of 15m below?

Author: added this example

With this configuration in place, the user can perform the actions that require a privileged session up to 15 minutes after
signing in. When this time passes, the user must re-authenticate to access these options.

### Demo

Watch this video to see the flow in action:

> <video controls width="100%">

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's a complete waste. but I would update it to use the new Account Experience and make it explicit the intent of the demo is showing how it asks for the password again when changing the email

> <video controls width="100%">

Reviewer: I don't see how showing this in motion adds value. It's a common mechanism, no need to demo it in any way.
